# Abbreviation #

os     = object_store
osd    = object_storage_daemon
pg     = placement_group
oid    = object_id
pid    = pg_id
cid    = collection_id
tran   = transaction
coll   = collection
obj    = object
msg    = messeage
msger  = messenger
smsger = server_messenger

# Log ID #

Each log will have a log id which is stand for the process of this log.

When debuging, grep by log_id will take the whole process and ignore unrelated logs

Log Prefix is stand for the deamon, it follows the rule DEAMON_TYPE + ENTITY_NUMBER, here is some examples:

0101: mon.1
0201: osd.1
0302: client.2

# Unit Test #

Simple unit tests run fast and cover most functions and cases, this is used for develop.
Full unit tests cost more time to cover more cases such as multithread cases. When push a new request, full unit test should be passed.

make check will run simple unit tests.
make fullcheck will run full unit tests.

# Errno & Log #

When log an errno, the format should be "errno %d(%s)", the %d will be the errno, and the %s will be cceph_errno_str(ret).

For examples:
    LOG(LL_ERROR, log_id, "Execute CreateCollection op failed, errno %d(%s).",
            op->cid, ret, cceph_errno_str(ret));

# Memory Malloc/Free of ObjectStore #

The Transaction will use the ref of the op data directly, so before a transaction finished, the data of the transaction op should not be freed.

Ordinary, the caller such as OSD should keep the ref of the transacation op data, and free them when the op finished.

When execute a read op, The caller should keep the ref of the results and free them when they are unused.

# Map #
We use rbtree to impl map.

In rbtree.h/c, there are two macros: CCEPH_DEFINE_MAP and CCEPH_IMPL_MAP. CCEPH_DEFINE_MAP can be used to define map methods including insert, remove and serach, while CCEPH_IMPL_MAP will impl these there methods.


